---
layout: distill
title: Easily Switch from WhatsApp to Signal
description: The Beeper app allows an easy transition by unifying all chats.
header_image: assets/img/whatsapp_to_signal.svg
header_image_class: l-body
header_image_width_desktop: 60%
header_image_width_mobile: 90%
header_image_zoomable: true
header_image_caption:
header_image_padding_bottom: 20px
tags: tools
date: 2026-01-18
giscus_comments: false
featured: false
mermaid:
  enabled: false
  zoomable: false
code_diff: false
map: false
chart:
  chartjs: false
  echarts: false
  vega_lite: false
tikzjax: false
typograms: false

authors:
  - name: Can Rager

bibliography: 2018-12-22-distill.bib

# Optionally, you can add a table of contents to your post.
# NOTES:
#   - make sure that TOC names match the actual section names
#     for hyperlinks within the post to work correctly.
#   - we may want to automate TOC generation in the future using
#     jekyll-toc plugin (https://github.com/toshimaru/jekyll-toc).
toc:
  - name: Beeper Simplifies the Switch
  - name: Why Leave WhatsApp?
  - name: Why Join Signal?

# Below is an example of injecting additional post-specific styles.
# If you use this post as a template, delete this _styles block.
_styles: >
  .fake-img {
    background: #bbb;
    border: 1px solid rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1);
    box-shadow: 0 0px 4px rgba(0, 0, 0, 0.1);
    margin-bottom: 12px;
  }
  .fake-img p {
    font-family: monospace;
    color: white;
    text-align: left;
    margin: 12px 0;
    text-align: center;
    font-size: 16px;
  }
---

Most of our contacts are available on WhatsApp. This makes it hard to swith to other messengers like Signal. How can we reach WhatsApp contacts when using Signal?

### Beeper Simplifies the Switch
For the transition, we need a way to primarily use Signal while still being able to reach all remaining contacts on WhatsApp and other networks. The app Beeper helps with this by unifying chats from all messengers. The app is free for up to 5 linked messenger services, which is enough for me: Signal, WhatsApp, iMessage, and Discord cover all my contacts. I've been using Beeper for a month now. The app is easy to use and serves its purpose well.

<div style="max-width: 60%; margin: 0 auto;">
{% include figure.liquid loading="eager" path="assets/img/beeper_screen.png" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
</div>
<p class="caption">In the Beeper app, you can simultaneously chat with all your contacts on WhatsApp, Signal, Instagram, LinkedIn, Telegram, and many other messengers.</p>

Beeper meets the necessary security standard of *end-to-end encryption*, but I cannot professionally assess the overall security of the service. The Beeper app recently released a major update and has not yet been reviewed by independent experts. The founders of Beeper have previously advocated for digital transparency.<d-cite key="techcrunch2021beeper"></d-cite> Beeper's parent company, Automattic, also develops other products like WordPress that are known for digital transparency. However, Automattic was involved in a trademark dispute in 2024, as a result of which over 150 employees resigned in protest against company leadership.<d-cite key="techcrunch2024automattic"></d-cite>

I currently trust Beeper and continue to monitor security audits and Automattic's leadership. I'll keep you updated on this blog. The service is very easy to leave in case concerns arise in the future: simply delete the Beeper app and use the individual messengers separately.


### Why Leave WhatsApp?

WhatsApp users support a monopoly with three billion users worldwide<d-cite key="statista2025messenger"></d-cite> and over 85% market share in Germany<d-cite key="statista2025whatsapp"></d-cite>, which has repeatedly abused its power. WhatsApp's parent company Meta has been responsible for several scandals involving covert user surveillance (Onavo VPN<d-cite key="heise2024onavo,guardian2018onavo"></d-cite>, Meta Pixel Tracking<d-cite key="guardian2022metapixel"></d-cite>) and data misuse for political influence (Cambridge Analytica<d-cite key="mainzermedien2018cambridge,bpb2019cambridge,ukparliament2019cambridge"></d-cite>).

WhatsApp users financially support the company. While the contents of WhatsApp messages are encrypted, information about who writes to whom and when, along with other metadata, can be used for selling advertisements. WhatsApp's current international privacy policy allows the use of private data for "showing relevant offers and ads across the Meta Company Products"<d-cite key="whatsapp2025privacy"></d-cite>. WhatsApp's current European privacy policy states: "We work with Meta Companies in the United States and Ireland that assist us with the operation of our Services. To receive these services we share Information We Collect."<d-cite key="whatsapp2025privacyeea"></d-cite>

Follow the founders' lead and leave WhatsApp: Jan Koum and Brian Acton founded WhatsApp in 2009 with the mission to always remain ad-free and protect user privacy. Facebook acquired WhatsApp in 2014 and decided three years later to use personal user data for advertising purposes. Acton then left WhatsApp, publicly called for the deletion of Facebook services, and instead co-founded the messenger Signal.<d-cite key="forbes2018acton"></d-cite> Koum also later left WhatsApp due to the violation of his original mission.<d-cite key="wapo2018koum"></d-cite>

"Our digital lives are in the hands of a few ultra-wealthy individuals. With the monopoly position of their companies, people like Elon Musk, Jeff Bezos, or Mark Zuckerberg determine worldwide how we inform ourselves online, how we discuss, communicate, or conduct business. No person and no company should possess such uncontrolled influence, because then we can no longer live in freedom," writes the coalition of human rights organizations for the <a href="https://di.day">Digital Independence Day</a>.


### Why Join Signal?

Signal is free, as easy to use as WhatsApp, and the undisputed gold standard among messengers. I trust Signal primarily because the messenger is led by privacy advocates who have previously championed digital freedom: Edward Snowden, Meredith Whittaker, Brian Acton, and others. Independent experts have repeatedly certified Signal as "cryptographically secure".<d-cite key="cohngordon2019signal"></d-cite> The Signal Foundation is funded exclusively by donations and has no commercial or political intentions.

It only takes a critical mass of users for Signal to become the new messenger standard. Currently, I exclusively use Beeper to message all my contacts, and I've already convinced some contacts to start using Signal. I would be happy if this information has convinced you to do the same.
